The Project Gutenberg eBook of Leonardo Da Vinci
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Leonardo Da Vinci

Author: Maurice W. Brockwell

Release date: March 1, 2005 [eBook #7785]
                Most recently updated: August 6, 2009

Language: English

Credits: Produced by Juliet Sutherland, David Widger and the DP Team


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LEONARDO DA VINCI ***




Produced by Juliet Sutherland, David Widger and the DP Team








[Illustration: Plate 1--MONA LISA. Frontispiece

In the Louvre. No. 1601. 2 ft 6 ½ ins. By 1 ft. 9 ins. (0.77 x 0.53)]



LEONARDO DA VINCI



By MAURICE W. BROCKWELL



Illustrated With Eight Reproductions in Colour

[Illustration]


"Leonardo," wrote an English critic as far back as 1721, "was a Man
so happy in his genius, so consummate in his Profession, so
accomplished in the Arts, so knowing in the Sciences, and withal, so
much esteemed by the Age wherein he lived, his Works so highly
applauded by the Ages which have succeeded, and his Name and Memory
still preserved with so much Veneration by the present Age--that, if
anything could equal the Merit of the Man, it must be the Success he
met with. Moreover, 'tis not in Painting alone, but in Philosophy,
too, that Leonardo surpassed all his Brethren of the 'Pencil.'"

This admirable summary of the great Florentine painter's life's work
still holds good to-day.




CONTENTS

His Birth
His Early Training
His Early Works
First Visit to Milan
In the East
Back in Milan
The Virgin of the Rocks
The Last Supper
The Court of Milan
Leonardo Leaves Milan
Mona Lisa
Battle of Anghiari
Again in Milan
In Rome
In France
His Death
His Art
